  © 2009 Washington Professional Educator Standards Board (PESB). All rights reserved.PageExample: Textbox 1.5.1Entry 1Textbox 1.CriterionAdvocating for curriculum, instruction and learning environments that meet the diverse needsof each student.  © 2009 Washington Professional Educator Standards Board (PESB). All rights reserved.PageExample: Textbox 1.5.1Entry 1Textbox 1.ExampleCriterion 1. Students need for kindergarten readiness. There are a declining number of children who are starting kindergarten ready to learn. In talking with others, we decided to hire a bilingual site coordinator and open the Right from the Start early learning resource center for parents with children ages birth to five. The outcome is still to be determined because this pilot program, through United Way, is still new but our goal is to increase the number of children ready for kindergarten by providing resources, materials, classes, events, and referrals to families of all diversities. Providing free classes and childcare at our school made it possible for many parents to attend. I have met with the site coordinator to discuss what nimum skill expectations we would like children to have before entering kindergarten. We will continue to offer free classes and family events and continue to get the word out about this valuable resource center that helps parents increase their skills andknowledge to support their child&#146;s school readiness and success. 2. A student was in need of school supplies. Our local community center ran out of free supplies and at open house before school started the child&#146;s parent told me they could not afford tobuy them. The child wouldn&#146;t be able to participate in classroom activities, such as writing, coloring, cutting, etc. without these supplies. She would also feel sad and disappointed that she couldn&#146;t do what the other students were doing. A note to parents requesting extra supplies if they can, was helpful and I was able to provide the supplies the student would need. She was very excited on the first day of school when she saw a school box in her cubby that was full of supplies. She thanked me many times. With these tools, she was able to participate and learn in schoolI would do the same thing again for any student who needed school supplies. 3. A student neededa filling nutritious lunch but had a negative balance on his lunch account for 2 days. When lunch accounts have a negative balance of $5.00 or more the child will only get a cheese sandwich and white milk until the account is paid in full. His parent was unable to pay for 3 days until they got their paycheck so I paid the account plus enough for a few more days of lunches. I also contacted the parent about the free/reduced lunch program and sent home an application. The application provides an opportunity for students to get a nutritious breakfast and lunch. Following up with the parents ensures that the student is utilizing the free/reduced lunch program. The application was returned and the student qualified for free lunchThe student was happy when he got to have pizza, vegetables, fruit and chocolate milk the next day after I paid the account. The good nutritious lunches gave him the extra boost he needed to get through the afternoons]. I would do the same thing again for any student who wasn&#146;t getting a nutritious lunch.  © 2009 Washington Professional Educator Standards Board (PESB). All rights reserved.PageExample: Textbox 1.5.1Entry 1Textbox 1.ExampleCriterionMet/CriterionPartially MetLevelEach middle school teacher has one period of unified arts during which we can choose a curriculum. I chose nutrition because all students should have information to choose healthy meals. Obesity related illness has now overtaken smoking as the leading cause of preventable death in our country. Teaching students the basics of nutrition and food choices gives them the tools they need to make healthy choices throughout their life. My goal is for students to be aware of how the food choices they make will affect their life now and in the future. I want them to understand that they vote with every bite they take and every dollar they spend on food. They vote for what foods are produced and how those foods are produced. I advocated for a venue change for 6th grade camp. All students regardless of ability to pay attend. Students are in trail groups of 12 with outstanding outdoor educators. It is experiential learning at its best. Marine science and forest ecology have been the curriculum in past years. This year we will look at how the largest dam removal project in US history is progressing. It is a spectacular opportunity for many kids who've never been in a national park to experience on of our countries greatest treasures.